---
title: Detection on Alternate Targets
slug: detection-on-alternate-targets
breadcrumb: Detection and Response
source: https://docs.limacharlie.io/docs/detection-on-alternate-targets
articleId: ca1ac1e4-ae84-46f8-80d1-64f27c12f16b
---

* * *

Detection on Alternate Targets

  *  __04 Aug 2025
  *  __ 3 Minutes to read 



Share this __

  * __ Print

  *  __ Share

  *  __ Dark

 __ Light




 __Contents

# Detection on Alternate Targets

  *  __Updated on 04 Aug 2025
  *  __ 3 Minutes to read 



  * __ Print

  *  __ Share

  *  __ Dark

 __ Light




* * *

Article summary

 __

Did you find this summary helpful? __ __ __ __

__

Thank you for your feedback!

Detection & Response rules run against `edr` events by default, however, there are 7 other targets:

  * `detection`

  * `deployment`

  * `artifact`

  * `artifact_event`

  * `schedule`

  * `audit`

  * `billing`




This article is to give some ideas of what they're used for, and how they're used.

## Target: detection

You can run rules on detections generated by other rules. This allows you to further filter existing detections  
and change add a response behavior to certain special cases.

In the `detection` target, the `event:` or `events:` specified refer to the `name` of the detection specified in the  
original detection's `report` action.

The `detection` target supports all of the same operators and actions as regular `edr` rules.

### Example
    
    
    # Detection
    target: detection
    op: and
    rules:
    - op: is
      path: cat
      value: virus-total-hit
    - op: is
      path: routing/hostname
      value: ceo-laptop
    
    # Response
    - action: extension request
      extension name: pagerduty
      extension action: run
      request:
        group: '{{ "lc-alerts" }}'
        severity: '{{ "critical" }}'
        component: '{{ "vip-alert" }}'
        summary: '{{ "Alert on a VIP endpoint." }}'
        source: '{{ "limacharlie.io" }}'
        class: '{{ "dr-rules" }}'
    

This rule takes a pre-existing detection report named `virus-total-hit` and sends it to PagerDuty if it occurs on a specific hostname.

## Target: deployment

Deployment events relate to sensors connecting to the cloud: `enrollment`, `sensor_clone`, `sensor_over_quota`, `deleted_sensor`.

Take the `sensor_clone` event as an example. This event can happen when a Sensor is installed in a VM image, leading to duplicate sensor IDs connecting to the cloud. When this is detected we can use this event to automate behavior to de-duplicate the sensor.

The `deployment` target supports all of the same operators and actions as regular `edr` rules.

### Example
    
    
    # Detection
    target: deployment
    event: sensor_clone
    op: is windows
    
    # Response
    - action: task
      command: file_del %windir%\system32\hcp.dat
    - action: task
      command: file_del %windir%\system32\hcp_hbs.dat
    - action: task
      command: file_del %windir%\system32\hcp_conf.dat
    - action: task
      command: restart
    

This rule de-duplicates sensors on Windows by deleting `.dat` files specific to the Windows installation and then issuing a `restart` sensor command.

> For samples of each `deployment` event type, see [Reference: Platform Events](/v2/docs/reference-platform-events).

## Target: artifact

Parsed artifacts can be run through the rule engine as if they were regular `edr` events, but there are some key differences. Namely, they support a subset of operators and actions, while adding some special parameters.

### Example

This rule will target parsed `/var/log/auth.log` entries to see if there are are auth failures.
    
    
    # Detection
    target: artifact
    artifact type: txt
    artifact path: /var/log/auth.log
    op: matches
    re: .*(authentication failure|Failed password).*
    path: /text
    case sensitive: false
    
    # Response
    - action: report
      name: Failed Auth
    

### Supported Operators

  * `is`

  * `and`

  * `or`

  * `exists`

  * `contains`

  * `starts with`

  * `ends with`

  * `is greater than`

  * `is lower than`

  * `matches`

  * `string distance`




### Supported Resources

`lookup` and `external` resources are supported within rules just like the `edr` target.

### Supported Actions

The only response action supported for the `artifact` target is the `report` action.

### Special Parameters

  * `artifact path`: matches the start of the artifact's `path` string, e.g. `/auth.log`

  * `artifact type`: matches the artifact's `type` string, e.g. `pcap`, `zeek`, `auth`, `wel`

  * `artifact source`: matches the artifact's `source` string, e.g. `hostname-123`




> Note: for duplicate Windows Event Log ingestions, the rule engine will use the log's `EventRecordID` to ensure a rule will not run more than once over the same record.

## Target: artifact_event

For unparsed logs, it can be useful to use the `ingest` and `export_complete` lifecycle events from the `artifact_event` target to automate behaviors in response to artifacts.

> For samples of `ingest` and `export_complete`, see [Reference: Platform Events](/v2/docs/reference-platform-events).

### Example
    
    
    # Detection
    target: artifact_event
    event: export_complete
    op: starts with
    path: routing/log_type
    value: pcap
    case sensitive: false
    
    # Response
    - action: report
      name: PCAP Artifact ready to Download
    

## Target: schedule

Schedule events are triggered automatically at various intervals per Organization or per Sensor, observable in rules via the `schedule` target.

For more information, see [Reference: Schedule Events](/v2/docs/reference-schedule-events)

## Target: audit

Audit events are generated by the LimaCharlie platform and track changes and events from within the platform such as tasking, replays, hive changes, etc. These events can be viewed within the "Platform Logs" menu or by viewing events from the `audit-logs` sensor.

## Target: billing

Billing events are generated by the LimaCharlie platform and are related to aspects of the platform such as quotas, thresholds, and other cost-associated events. For an example, see the [Usage Alerts Extension](/v2/docs/ext-usage-alerts) documentation

Similar to agents, Sensors send telemetry to the LimaCharlie platform in the form of EDR telemetry or forwarded logs. Sensors are offered as a scalable, serverless solution for securely connecting endpoints of an organization to the cloud.

In LimaCharlie, an Organization represents a tenant within the SecOps Cloud Platform, providing a self-contained environment to manage security data, configurations, and assets independently. Each Organization has its own sensors, detection rules, data sources, and outputs, offering complete control over security operations. This structure enables flexible, multi-tenant setups, ideal for managed security providers or enterprises managing multiple departments or clients.

* * *

Was this article helpful?

__Yes __No

 __

Thank you for your feedback! Our team will get back to you

How can we improve this article?

Your feedback

Need more information

Difficult to understand

Inaccurate or irrelevant content

Missing/broken link

Others

Comment

Comment (Optional)

Character limit : 500

Please enter your comment

Email (Optional)

Email

Notify me about change  


Please enter a valid email

Cancel

* * *

###### Related articles

  * [ Detection and Response Examples ](/docs/detection-and-response-examples)
  * [ Detection and Response ](/docs/detection-and-response)
  * [ Stateful Rules ](/docs/stateful-rules)



* * *

###### What's Next

  * [ False Positive Rules ](/docs/false-positive-rules) __



Table of contents

    * Target: detection 
    * Target: deployment 
    * Target: artifact 
    * Target: artifact_event 
    * Target: schedule 
    * Target: audit 
    * Target: billing 



Tags

  * [ detection and response ](/docs/en/tags/detection%20and%20response)


